---
title: "National Recording Preservation Foundation Awards $28,350 for Audio Preservation in 2023"
date: 2023-10-23
author: "Jesse Johnston"
categories: 
  - news
  - press releases
type: press release
layout: "press-release"
tags:
  - Appalshop
  - HBCU Radio Preservation
  - UCSB
  - Bernard Hermann
  - audio preservation
  - grants
  - press release 
published: false
---

Washington, D.C. — The National Recording Preservation Foundation (NRPF) is delighted to announce the distribution of grants totaling $28,350 to support vital audio preservation projects. These grants further NRPF's ongoing commitment to safeguard and preserve the vibrant history of recorded sound. The 2023 grants have been awarded to three notable projects: the HBCU Radio Preservation Project, the University of California at Santa Barbara, and Appalshop. Each will undertake essential work dedicated to preserving audio treasures of high cultural and historical significance for future generations. 

## HBCU Radio Preservation Project

The HBCU Radio Preservation Project, operated by WYSO Radio of Miami Valley State Media, has been granted $8,500 by NRPF. This project is dedicated to rescuing civil rights-related radio broadcasts, specifically those archived at WRVS and the G. R. Little Library at Elizabeth City State University. The methodology developed during this initiative will serve as a model for working with and surveying other historically Black college and university (HBCU) broadcasts. NRPF's support underscores the critical importance of preserving these recordings, which are essential to understanding our nation's history and civil rights movements.

## University of California at Santa Barbara - Bernard Herrmann Recordings

The UCSB Library’s Special Research Collections has been awarded an $8,500 grant from NRPF to preserve, digitize, and make accessible groundbreaking radio broadcasts conducted by Bernard Herrmann in the 1930s and 1940s. While Herrmann is renowned today for his film compositions (Psycho, Citizen Kane, Taxi Driver), his early career as a composer and symphonic conductor for radio is equally significant. These recordings capture Herrmann's innovative approach to the symphonic repertoire, championing the work of composers like Charles Ives, Edward Elgar, Ralph Vaughan Williams, Robert Russell Bennett, and William Grant Still. NRPF's support ensures that Herrmann's contribution to music and culture will be available for generations to come.

## Appalshop - Post-Flooding Disaster Response

Appalshop, a vital repository of central Appalachian history, art, and culture, faced a catastrophic 1000-year flood on July 28, 2022, that inundated eastern Kentucky. This devastating event submerged nearly a century of first-voice primary source film and video documentation in floodwaters, putting this invaluable collection at risk of being lost forever. Appalshop Archive will use the $11,350 grant from NRPF to work with preservation vendor AV Geeks to clean and digitize 280 tapes damaged by the flood. Their efforts will include splice repair and other conservation interventions necessary to restore the playability of the media, ultimately preserving this vital piece of Appalachian history.


"These grants demonstrate NRPF's renewed dedication to preserving recorded audio history in the United States," said Jesse Johnston, Secretary of the NRPF Board of Directors and Clinical Assistant Professor at the University of Michigan School of Information. "We see these awards as integral and basic support for essential preservation activities," continued Johnston. "These projects reflect the breadth and diversity of our audio heritage, from historically significant radio broadcasts to the lesser-known recordings of an iconic composer and the recovery of fragile audio materials damaged by natural disasters."

The National Recording Preservation Foundation is dedicated to protecting and making accessible the recordings that form a significant part of our shared cultural memory.

For further information about the National Recording Preservation Foundation and its grant programs, please visit [NRPF's Website](https://www.recordingpreservation.org/).